---
layout: article

title: Error-feedback Three-phase Optimization to Configurable Convolutional Echo State Network for Time Series Forecasting

permalink: /under_review/asc2023.html

key: ur-etoccesn
---
Xinze Zhang, Kun He, Qi Sima, and Yukun Bao

<!--more-->

### Abstract

<div style="text-align: justify"   markdown='1'>
Time series forecasting is of great importance in many real-world applications. As an efficient alternative to fully trained deep neural networks, convolutional echo state networks (CESNs) have shown intriguing time series modeling efficacy by coupling the convolutional neural network (CNN) and echo state network (ESN). However, current CESN models rely on elaborately designed neural architectures and are tailored for the classification tasks. To this end, we propose a configurable convolutional echo state network (CCESN) for time series forecasting, which adaptively grows the network with heterogeneous modular subnetwork cells including ESN, CNN, CESN, and CESN-reversed echo state convolutional network (ESCN) modules, so as to fully leverage the complementary feature extraction capabilities of convolutional and recurrent neural network modules. Then, a novel error-feedback three-phase optimization (ETO) strategy is introduced to adaptively determine the CCESN configurations by dynamically choosing the optimal subnetwork modules meanwhile step-wisely tuning the subnetwork parameters. Comprehensive experiments are conducted on representative simulated and real-world datasets. The results demonstrate that ETO-CCESN can grow the neural architecture to acclimatize to different scenarios with adaptively selected and optimized subnetwork modules. And ETO-CCESN exhibits superior predictive power as well as faster convergence ability compared to state-of-the-art randomized neural network forecasting models.

</div>